tsfn: implement TypedThreadSafeFunction (#742)
nodejs/node-addon-api: doc/threadsafe_function_ex.md

# ThreadSafeFunctionEx

The `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx` type provides APIs for threads to communicate
with the addon's main thread to invoke JavaScript functions on their behalf. The
type is a three-argument templated class, each argument representing the type
of:
- `ContextType = std::nullptr_t`: The thread-safe function's context. By default,
  a TSFN has no context.
- `DataType = void*`: The data to use in the native callback. By default, a TSFN
  can accept *any* data type.

> - `Callback = void*(Napi::Env, Napi::Function jsCallback, ContextType*,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Callback = void(*)(Napi::Env, Napi::Function jsCallback, ContextType*,
```

function has several overloads for the various optional parameters: skip the
optional parameter for that specific overload.

```cpp
New(napi_env env,
    CallbackType callback,
    const Object& resource,
    ResourceString resourceName,
    size_t maxQueueSize,
    size_t initialThreadCount,
    ContextType* context,
    Finalizer finalizeCallback,
    FinalizerDataType* data = nullptr);
```

- `env`: The `napi_env` environment in which to construct the
  `Napi::ThreadSafeFunction` object.
- `[optional] callback`: The `Function` to call from another thread.
- `[optional] resource`: An object associated with the async work that will be
  passed to possible async_hooks init hooks.
- `resourceName`: A JavaScript string to provide an identifier for the kind of
  resource that is being provided for diagnostic information exposed by the
  async_hooks API.
- `maxQueueSize`: Maximum size of the queue. `0` for no limit.
- `initialThreadCount`: The initial number of threads, including the main
  thread, which will be making use of this function.
- `[optional] context`: Data to attach to the resulting `ThreadSafeFunction`.

>   Can be retreived via `GetContext()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It can be retreived via `GetContext()`.
```

- `[optional] finalizeCallback`: Function to call when the
  `ThreadSafeFunctionEx` is being destroyed.  This callback will be invoked on
  the main thread when the thread-safe function is about to be destroyed. It
  receives the context and the finalize data given during construction (if
  given), and provides an opportunity for cleaning up after the threads e.g. by
  calling `uv_thread_join()`. It is important that, aside from the main loop
  thread, there be no threads left using the thread-safe function after the
  finalize callback completes. Must implement `void operator()(Env env,
  DataType* data, ContextType* hint)`.
- `[optional] data`: Data to be passed to `finalizeCallback`.

Returns a non-empty `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx` instance.

Depending on the targetted `NAPI_VERSION`, the API has different implementations
for `CallbackType callback`.

When targetting version 4, `CallbackType` is:
- `const Function&`
- skipped, in which case the API creates a new no-op `Function`

When targetting version 5+, `CallbackType` is:
- `const Function&`
- `std::nullptr_t`

> - skipped, in which case the API passes `std::nullptr`

Reviewer: This is unclear, especially how the word "skipped" fits in. Is this supposed to mean "When targetting version <x> and `CallbackType` is skipped..."?

Author: This has been addressed [here](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-api/pull/742/files#diff-3c83591b72a5c006a3ff969a41d5dc61R93-R101).

- `BlockingCall()`: the API blocks until space becomes available in the queue.
  Will never block if the thread-safe function was created with a maximum queue
  size of `0`.
- `NonBlockingCall()`: will return `napi_queue_full` if the queue was full,
  preventing data from being successfully added to the queue.

```cpp
napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::BlockingCall(DataType* data = nullptr) const

napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::NonBlockingCall(DataType* data = nullptr) const
```

- `[optional] data`: Data to pass to the callback which was passed to
  `ThreadSafeFunctionEx::New()`.
- `[optional] callback`: C++ function that is invoked on the main thread. The
  callback receives the `ThreadSafeFunction`'s JavaScript callback function to
  call as an `Napi::Function` in its parameters and the `DataType*` data pointer
  (if provided). Must implement `void operator()(Napi::Env env, Function
  jsCallback, DataType* data)`, skipping `data` if not provided. It is not
  necessary to call into JavaScript via `MakeCallback()` because N-API runs

>   `callback` in a context appropriate for callbacks.

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be removed as it is not a parameter for the Ex version.

Author: Absolutely. Was an oversight. This has been addressed [here](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-api/pull/742/files#diff-3c83591b72a5c006a3ff969a41d5dc61R172-R173).

# ThreadSafeFunctionEx

The `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx` type provides APIs for threads to communicate
with the addon's main thread to invoke JavaScript functions on their behalf. The
type is a three-argument templated class, each argument representing the type
of:
- `ContextType = std::nullptr_t`: The thread-safe function's context. By default,
  a TSFN has no context.
- `DataType = void*`: The data to use in the native callback. By default, a TSFN

>   can accept *any* data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can accept any data type.
```

- `Callback = void(*)(Napi::Env, Napi::Function jsCallback, ContextType*,
  DataType*)`: The callback to run for each item added to the queue. If no
  `Callback` is given, the API will call the function `jsCallback` with no
  arguments.

Documentation can be found for an [overview of the API](threadsafe.md), as well
as [differences between the two thread-safe function
APIs](threadsafe.md#implementation-differences).

## Methods

### Constructor

Creates a new empty instance of `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx`.

```cpp
Napi::Function::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::ThreadSafeFunctionEx();
```

### Constructor

Creates a new instance of the `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx` object.

```cpp

> Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::ThreadSafeFunctionEx(napi_threadsafe_function tsfn);

Reviewer: Does this constructor also need `Napi::Env env`? What if the user calls `.Ref()` or `.Unref()`?

Author: I believe this is resolved as we discussed last week: TSFN[Ex] have their own implementation of `.Ref()` and `.Unref()`

  `ThreadSafeFunctionEx` is being destroyed.  This callback will be invoked on
  the main thread when the thread-safe function is about to be destroyed. It
  receives the context and the finalize data given during construction (if
  given), and provides an opportunity for cleaning up after the threads e.g. by
  calling `uv_thread_join()`. It is important that, aside from the main loop
  thread, there be no threads left using the thread-safe function after the
  finalize callback completes. Must implement `void operator()(Env env,
  FinalizerDataType* data, ContextType* hint)`.
- `[optional] data`: Data to be passed to `finalizeCallback`.

Returns a non-empty `Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx` instance.

Depending on the targetted `NAPI_VERSION`, the API has different implementations
for `CallbackType callback`.

When targetting version 4, `callback` may be:
- of type `const Function&`
- not provided as a parameter, in which case the API creates a new no-op
`Function`

When targetting version 5+, `callback` may be:
- of type `const Function&`
- of type `std::nullptr_t`
- not provided as a parameter, in which case the API passes `std::nullptr`

### Acquire

> Add a thread to this thread-safe function object, indicating that a new thread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a thread to this thread-safe function object, indicating that a new thread
```

will start making use of the thread-safe function.

```cpp
napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::Acquire()
```

Returns one of:
- `napi_ok`: The thread has successfully acquired the thread-safe function for
  its use.
- `napi_closing`: The thread-safe function has been marked as closing via a
  previous call to `Abort()`.

### Release

> Indicate that an existing thread will stop making use of the thread-safe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicates that an existing thread will stop making use of the thread-safe
```

function. A thread should call this API when it stops making use of this
thread-safe function. Using any thread-safe APIs after having called this API

> has undefined results in the current thread, as it may have been destroyed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has undefined results in the current thread, as the thread-safe function may have been destroyed.
```

```cpp
napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::Release()
```

Returns one of:
- `napi_ok`: The thread-safe function has been successfully released.
- `napi_invalid_arg`: The thread-safe function's thread-count is zero.
- `napi_generic_failure`: A generic error occurred when attemping to release the
  thread-safe function.

### Abort

> "Abort" the thread-safe function. This will cause all subsequent APIs associated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Aborts" the thread-safe function. This will cause all subsequent APIs associated
```

guaranteed to be allocated.

```cpp
napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::Abort()
```

Returns one of:
- `napi_ok`: The thread-safe function has been successfully aborted.
- `napi_invalid_arg`: The thread-safe function's thread-count is zero.
- `napi_generic_failure`: A generic error occurred when attemping to abort the
  thread-safe function.

### BlockingCall / NonBlockingCall

Calls the Javascript function in either a blocking or non-blocking fashion.
- `BlockingCall()`: the API blocks until space becomes available in the queue.
  Will never block if the thread-safe function was created with a maximum queue
  size of `0`.
- `NonBlockingCall()`: will return `napi_queue_full` if the queue was full,
  preventing data from being successfully added to the queue.

```cpp
napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::BlockingCall(DataType* data = nullptr) const

napi_status Napi::ThreadSafeFunctionEx<ContextType, DataType, Callback>::NonBlockingCall(DataType* data = nullptr) const
```

- `[optional] data`: Data to pass to the callback which was passed to
  `ThreadSafeFunctionEx::New()`.

Returns one of:

> - `napi_ok`: The call was successfully added to the queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `napi_ok`: `data` was successfully added to the queue.
```

- `napi_queue_full`: The queue was full when trying to call in a non-blocking
  method.

> - `napi_closing`: The thread-safe function is aborted and cannot accept more
>   calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `napi_closing`: The thread-safe function is aborted and no further calls can be made.
```

- `napi_invalid_arg`: The thread-safe function is closed.
- `napi_generic_failure`: A generic error occurred when attemping to add to the
  queue.

## Example

```cpp
#include <chrono>
#include <thread>
#include <napi.h>

using namespace Napi;

using Context = Reference<Value>;
using DataType = int;
void CallJs( Napi::Env env, Function callback, Context* context, DataType* data );
using TSFN = ThreadSafeFunctionEx<Context, DataType, CallJs>;
using FinalizerDataType = void;

std::thread nativeThread;
TSFN tsfn;

> Value Start( const CallbackInfo& info )

Reviewer: Our coding style has no spaces after brackets and the opening brace is one space away from the last character on the line, not on the next line.

Author: Do we have some sort of clang-format file for formatting...?

### Release

Indicates that an existing thread will stop making use of the thread-safe
function. A thread should call this API when it stops making use of this
thread-safe function. Using any thread-safe APIs after having called this API

> has undefined results in the current thread, as the thread-safe function may have been destroyed.

Reviewer: Please wrap at 80!

using DataType = int;
void CallJs( Napi::Env env, Function callback, Context* context, DataType* data );
void CallJs(Napi::Env env, Function callback, Context *context, DataType *data);
using TSFN = ThreadSafeFunctionEx<Context, DataType, CallJs>;
using FinalizerDataType = void;

std::thread nativeThread;
TSFN tsfn;

Value Start( const CallbackInfo& info )
{
Value Start(const CallbackInfo &info) {
  Napi::Env env = info.Env();

  if ( info.Length() < 2 )
  {
    throw TypeError::New( env, "Expected two arguments" );
  }
  else if ( !info[0].IsFunction() )
  {
    throw TypeError::New( env, "Expected first arg to be function" );
  }
  else if ( !info[1].IsNumber() )
  {
    throw TypeError::New( env, "Expected second arg to be number" );
  if (info.Length() < 2) {
    throw TypeError::New(env, "Expected two arguments");
  } else if (!info[0].IsFunction()) {
    throw TypeError::New(env, "Expected first arg to be function");
  } else if (!info[1].IsNumber()) {
    throw TypeError::New(env, "Expected second arg to be number");
  }

  int count = info[1].As<Number>().Int32Value();

  // Create a new context set to the the receiver (ie, `this`) of the function
  // call

>   Context* context = new Reference<Value>( Persistent( info.This() ) );

Reviewer: nit: This is actually fine and not in need of changing. It conforms to the Node.js coding style.
